---
title: Ground Station Design and Optimisation for Airborne Wind Energy
summary: Mahdi Ebrahimi Salari
authors: ["Mahdi Ebrahimi Salari"]
tags:
- System Design and Optimisation
- Ground Station
date: "2018-11-30T00:00:00Z"
weight: 8

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ""

image:
  focal_point: Smart

links:
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  name: Follow
  url: https://twitter.com/kite_power
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
#slides: example
---

This project explores the application of the direct interconnection technique (DIT) to marine renewable energy (MRE) devices, specifically AWE systems. Interconnecting offshore generators and delivering generated power to the grid are critical challenges in dealing with offshore power generation. Unlike in conventional steam or gas plants, which are dispatchable, the prime mover in offshore renewable energy (wind) generation is non-dispatchable and the generated power changes with wind conditions. In the current design, power converters are integrated with each offshore generator and after these power converters interconnected through the transmission system to grid onshore. Because of long distances from the shore, the repair and maintenance for offshore plants including power converters can be very expensive, and system reliability is most important as mobilising in response to faults offshore takes considerable time with considerable associated cost and missed opportunity / missed generation costs. These are motivating factors in developing AWE systems and in the development of integration solutions for offshore farms.

A comprehensive research work to design, develop and examine the use of DIT for offshore non-reversing pumping mode AWE systems has been performed. It has been shown DIT can be effective and it can improve the ruggedness of the offshore installation by relocating power converters to shore. A laboratory hardware setup has been developed to emulate a small AWE farm. The hardware setup is used to develop and examine a holistic DIT approach for AWE farms. For the first time, a series of experimental tests of a DIT algorithm for AWE systems has been carried out. The test results prove the theoretical expectations and the technical feasibility of the direct interconnection technique for non-reversing pumping mode AWE devices. Also, computer simulation models have been developed to research with more flexibility. The performance of the directly interconnected AWE systems under normal and fault conditions has been studied. The outcomes of the fault condition study can be used in the design of a universal protection system. The quality of the power generated by the directly interconnected AWEs has been evaluated. Proper controllers have been developed to control the load balance and reactive power exchange of the directly interconnected AWE generators. By the implementation of the proposed active and reactive power controllers, a notable improvement in power quality has been achieved.

The research has demonstrated the efficacy of the DIT technique applied to AWE energy generation farms and demonstrates that power conversion can be relocated to landfall where readily maintained.
